Pumpa currently has Spanish, French, [Na'vi][17], Italian and German
translations. Any new translations are most welcome, but please tell
me first (<mats@sjoberg.fi>) so that people don't do duplicate work!

If you want to translate Pumpa you need to edit a .ts file.  Any TS
translation tool is probably OK, but these instructions assume you
will use the [Linguist tool][15] that comes with Qt. Here are the
steps:

- Download and install Qt development tools, e.g. in Debian you need
  the `qttools5-dev-tools` package (or `qt4-dev-tools` for older versions).  
  You can also just install the full Qt
  system from the [Qt Project web site][14] (Linux, Mac and Windows).

- Pull the most recent version of Pumpa from git. If you have cloned
  it earlier (as described above) just do a pull to get the newest
  version:

      git pull
    
  (alternatively you could just grab the .ts file directly from the
  [web site](http://source.pumpa.branchable.com/?p=source.git;a=tree;f=translations;hb=HEAD)).

- In Pumpa there should be a `translations` directory with several .ts
  files, called e.g. `pumpa_es.ts` for Spanish, `pumpa_de.ts` for
  German, and so on.  If you cannot find one for your language you can
  ask me to add it (or add it yourself, it needs a line under
  `TRANSLATIONS` in `pumpa.pro` and then run `lupdate` on the CLI).

- Open the .ts file in [Qt Linguist][15] and start filling in the
  fields in your language.  Feel free to ask any questions about the
  context of the texts, or if you want to have something improved to
  better fit your language.
  
- Some menu items and buttons have texts with ampersands,
  e.g. "&Help", this means that the next character is an
  ALT-shortcut. So in this case ALT-h would launch the Help menu.  It
  is OK to change the shortcut when translating, but make sure that
  you do not have the same shortcut for many things :-)
  
- Once you are done you can make your own clone of the git repository and make
  a pull request, or just email me the .ts file if that's easier.
  
- If you want to try it on Pumpa right away, you need to run the command:

      lrelease pumpa.pro

  (You need to use `lrelease-qt5` on some systems, e.g. Fedora.)

  Pumpa should detect your systems locale setting and use the correct
  language.  If that doesn't work, or your locale is different, you
  can always force Pumpa to pick the right one, e.g. for Spanish:

      ./pumpa -l es

  Or add this under the `[%General]` section in the configuration
  file:

    locale=es


[14]: https://qt-project.org/downloads
[15]: http://qt-project.org/doc/qt-4.8/linguist-translators.html
[17]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Na%27vi_language

